the Chinese yuan was pegged to the u.s.
dollar resulting in the intentional
maintenance of the exchange rate this
allows for predictability in trade
currency needed to be printed in order
for this to happen the government in
China would have to allow the currency
to flee from the country and be
converted into foreign currencies such
as the US dollar this is an attempt by
China and exporting their inflation in
recent years we've heard the claims that
China's and a currency manipulator
fueling the fire on this threatening
currency war which we have been caught
in the middle of you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you
today we have two major topics and one
of those being the yuan hitting an
8-year low versus the US dollar this has
been a currency war which has been going
on now for years and years and this is
very important to discuss and to track
as time goes on let's begin with this
first though austerity rocked Greece
could strike a deal with its creditors
by early next year senior EU officials
said and this is all because of what has
happened recently with the premier
saying that he's hiked spending for
pensioners what you have in Greece is
austerity measures and these austerity
measures are a deal and that deal was
basically we'll give you a bailout if
you commit to these austerity measures
and here we have Greece doing the exact
opposite increasing the spending this
has been an ongoing problem back and
forth between Greece and the EU and the
IMF and everyone else saying that you
can't have this spending you have too
much debt at this time that the GDP
ratios are off the charts and you have
to fix that and you have to go buy our
plans and our schedules and then
just the way it is but this year doesn't
really go well for Athens for Greece and
you can see all the protests that have
taken place over the years I don't agree
with the austerity measures that are in
place there are good levels of austerity
good things that I believe however those
good things never ever happen the
government will never spend less money
on something that it deems to be
essential like for example in the US
with the NSA they're not going to spend
less money collecting the data of all
the citizens but they'll spend less
money on things where people need it the
most it's just the way it is we're
always getting the short end of the
stick so let's move on to this here
looking at Ukraine they actually
nationalized the country's biggest bank
whoo right here it says has one-third of
the deposits in the country so it's a
huge Bank in relation to the Ukraine did
they did this in order to avert
financial meltdown this was something
that should teach us a lesson about what
could happen in our own countries
whether you're in the UK or Australia or
Canada the u.s. nationalize the banking
system or individual banks is something
that has happened before and could
happen once again this is a last-ditch
effort this is that understanding
essentially that any deposit insurance
is in fact a lie because they only hold
a fraction of the reserves and there's
no way that they could ever actually
insure the deposits it's a fraud but
here we are and this right here you have
once again the criminal organization
the IMF demanding Ukraine clean up and
stabilize its murky financial sector in
order to achieve substantial growth are
sustainable growth think about the IMF
all the policies implied by these
supranational entities and how they
exact their dominance over these
countries they are able to dominate each
and every one of them and they do so
because they dangle that carrot in front
of their eyes look you want to bail out
you want some help you want some funding
here it is just keep running just keep
going just keep following orders
nationalize the banking system is a very
big problem my opinion because that
allows the government to have even more
control over a sector that is already
basically controlled by the government
in any country around the world look at
Goldman Sachs that they have their hands
in basically all the highest positions
of power Geithner in a book said the
u.s. considered nationalizing the banks
we're looking back in the pages of the
history just a few years ago as you see
the financial crisis what had happened
the bank's looking very weak and here
they are the government saying that they
were about to nationalize the banks why
why couldn't they just use the deposit
insurance why couldn't they just commit
to their bailout that they did well
because that wasn't enough bailing out
the system the way they did it wasn't
sufficient and they were about to
collapse they said maybe we'll
nationalize it that is in fact siege
it's a takeover and you're looking at
corporations which are supposed to be
independent supposed to be there
to have the best interest in mind of the
people of course that's not the case
they are sort of quasi government
entities being protected being
controlled I should say by the
government's all right look at this in
the first 11 months of 2016 official
figures show that foreign currency bank
deposits owned by Chinese households
rose by almost 32 percent and why
propelled by the U wons
recent fall to an 8 year low against the
US dollar remember that this is very
important because we can see the trends
you need to follow a lot of people have
asked me when I asked what you need to
know what you want to know foreign
currency exchanges how to read this I
would say number one importance is
monitoring the yuan versus the US dollar
I'll show you more on that in a moment
the rapid rise almost four times the
growth rate for the total deposits in
the yuan and the other currencies as
recorded by the central bank data the
outflows that are currently taking place
are partially partially a result of
concerns that the yuan is going to
weaken further as US interest rates rise
and because of the lingering concerns
about the health of Chinese economy so
money is fleeing China at this time but
of course it has been doing so for quite
some time you could see all the
individuals in China purchasing u.s.
real estate Canadian real estate in fact
real estate all over the world they're
buying land there by businesses and
everything else money is fleeing and it
is being allowed to flee at this time it
isn't something that is going on you
know sort of under the table it's being
allowed to do this what I would say is
that there is this is multifaceted
there's different reasons why this is
happening and of course underlying all
of that is a currency war you have to
understand
a lot of the buying is taking place is
done by Chinese owned perhaps indirectly
owned corporations and entities so this
is something that I would say is
happening intentionally and something
that is really being overlooked right
away I just let's just have a little fun
here for a moment look at this face it
really really looks like he's a ghost
anyway if Soros is still sitting on his
China short made earlier in 2016 he's
going to get rewarded more handsomely
next year the Chinese you want is going
to seven so saying that it's down six
point five percent year-to-date and
essentially going toward seven to the US
dollar since the government opened its
capital accounts and has been promoting
you want internationalization of you
want to trade more you want have been
flying out of the country and dollars
coming in and converting into them
Chinese corporations and individuals are
taking the money investing abroad and
everything from real estate to foreign
mutual funds this is something that has
made it possible for exports to be more
attractive this has always happened it's
just the way it is in fact we saw that
taking place very very clearly with what
happened with Mexico a few years ago now
they purposely devalued in order to be
more attractive and it worked that's
just the way it goes let's look at this
doing business the Chinese way Facebook
develops a censorship tool I just wanted
to mention the fact that business in
China is booming Facebook wants to get
in on that and they have done so by
actually creating a censorship tool
which has allowed them to get back into
the Chinese market corporations from the
US want to get in on China China is
buying corporations in the u.s. what's
going vice-versa
and then something that I wanted to show
you if you go to Google Finance they
have a very interesting feature which
allows you to compare different
currencies what you're seeing here might
be hard to see depending on your screen
that you're looking on this right now
the red line is showing you the Chinese
yuan and that is versus the US dollar
and you could see that it has been an
eight point eight percent decline over
the past five years then you look at it
the blue line Chinese currency versus
the Canadian currency and you can see
that it has increased 17% so when you
measure the two of them against each
other
Chinese versus u.s. it looks to be in
one direction but then look at that in a
different direction Chinese use versus
the Canadian currency and you see a
whole different picture so remember that
currencies are traded against each other
that is absolutely essential use this as
a tool in your investigation into the
markets very important tool here I
wanted to mention that it is something
that is essential just very quickly
Saudi Arabia we had the whole 911 thing
that you know the involvement of Saudi
Arabia in 9/11 they pass a law that
basically says look you can actually sue
them Saudi Arabia has now lobbying the
US government saying look look look look
look don't worry about it okay don't do
that that's not cool man don't allow
this to happen we're cool right
we're cool that's basically what's
happening at this time to put it simply
if you found this video informative
please give me a thumbs up if you love
Janet Yellen then give me a thumbs down
if you find it oh so wonderful if you
want to find there also wonderful give
me a thumbs down
if you're scared of Janet yellen's face
in this image give me a thumbs up last
but not least if you found the video
informative I know you will find my book
the money GPS even more informative
I've got diagrams I've got charts that
make this very complicated subject so
easy to understand you can flip through
the book if you go over to Amazon where
they have a look inside feature that
allows you to flip through the pages of
the book and see if you like it thumbs
down for Janet Yellen